
patrick.waters
TfNSW would like to advise the trip planner has been updated with new fares effective 3rd of July.

February 2020
jayen
I see Trip Planner has a “Connecting with public transport” set of options. How can I set these options through the API?

1 reply
February 2020▶ jayen
eneida.raya
Hi @jayen. We’ve asked internally and will get back to you.

March 2020
explosivegamma
Hi - may just me being dumb but the trip planner api seems to be returning trips almost calculated 12 hours early. Just wondering if there is anything about this?

1 reply
March 2020▶ explosivegamma
jayen
Do you have an example? I think the API returns times in UTC in ISO 8601 format.

1 reply
March 2020▶ jayen
explosivegamma
That’s the issue - didn’t realize it returned times in UTC
Kinda strange imo - but fair enough

1 reply
March 2020▶ explosivegamma
jayen
They’re in ISO 8601 format, which is totally normal. The Z at the end indicates UTC time: ISO 8601 - Wikipedia, which is also totally normal.

It’s rare to see a date&time format which doesn’t also include the timezone. When date and time are separated, then the timezone may be implied.

The strange part is that the API request uses separate date and time, but the response provides date&time together.

1 reply
March 2020▶ jayen
explosivegamma
All good - I’m just starting out using api’s personally so still learning everything :slight_smile:

February 2022
joaommartins
Following the current documentation, the API does not generate a multimodal trip with cycling legs regardless of the options used. Is this expected behaviour?

August 2023
suds
Hi,
When using the /departure_mon endpoint, under the location.properties of each stopEvent, there is a “platform” field. I was not able to find any documentation on this field, but from experimentation, I’ve arrived at the following findings:

For train trips, this platform field is given as the station’s 3-letter code, followed by the platform number. Eg. “PDH4” for Pendle Hill, Platform 4.

For bus trips from major interchanges, the platform field is given as the bus stand that it departs from. Eg. “K” for Stand K

For bus trips from most minor bus stops, the platform field is given as “X1” (eg. at stop 2065134).

However, from North Sydney Girls High School (2065138), busses seem to depart from platform “X2”. Likewise with Pendle Hill Station (2145141), busses depart from “X4”.
And at Westpoint Bus Interchange (2148373), the bus stands are labelled by number, not letter, and so a bus departing from platform “X8” denotes Stand 8.

I am using this to filter the stand that busses depart from at bus stops. I had tried to filter stands by their reported “platform” field, and ignore when it equals “X1”, however there seem to be other values possible. I was wondering what the mechanism for the value in this “platform” field was?

Thanks.

Addendum: Platforms at Kogarah Station do NOT appear to be labelled with station code, instead being reported as “P1”, “P2”, “P3” and “P4”.

September 2023
manju_rn
For the platform, the Light Rail stations have platform data as LR1, LR2. It will be good to have documentation so that this is made clear. I checked the feed data and this was not clearly specified and seems random

January 2025
karansyd4
reg. the coord api in trip planning https://api.transport.nsw.gov.au/v1/tp/coord

How to know if a stop is bus stop / train / metro station etc?
What param can be used to filter out only bus stops from the api response ?
January 2025
balaji_srm
Hello,

Thank you for reaching out to Transport NSW. You can determine whether a stop is a train or bus by checking the GIS_DRAW_CLASS results. Bus stops are labeled as “StopArea,” while train stops are labeled as “StopPoint.”

You can filter stops using the type_1 string as follows:

Available values:

GIS_POINT: GIS points, including Opal resellers (see inclDrawClasses_1)
BUS_POINT: Bus stops/stations
POI_POINT: Places of interest
For more information, please visit: Trip Planner APIs Data

Kind regards

Balaji Subramanium

Open Data & Innovation

Planning, Integration & Passenger

balaji.subramanium@transport.nsw.gov.au

transport.nsw.gov.au

May 2025
Greenhouse
I have been using this for a couple of years to make a departure monitor for my local train station. It has been working perfectly until a day or two ago.

It appears the “departureTimeEstimated” is gone from the data I get back and now only “departureTimePlanned” and “departureTimeBaseTimetable” are returned.

From the documentation, the “planned” was the timetabled departure, but has this changed now? I.e. which one is the ‘real time’ one?

Edit: Have been using stopid 10101200, but have tried 211410 as well.

1 reply
May 2025▶ Greenhouse
Marcie
Hi @Greenhouse, just confirming the stop you’re set up for is Denistone train station?

1 reply
May 2025▶ Marcie
Greenhouse
Correct, but looks like it’s come back now after no changes on this side.

1 reply
May 2025▶ Greenhouse
Marcie
the “departureTimeEstimated” is related to real-time and there potentially has been a temporary closing/not stopping of the station - it’s on the T9 line so may have had issues with the disruption?

Still trying to find out what happened. Glad it’s back though!